docs: added memtable howto guide (#4679)
ibis-project/ibis: docs/how_to/memtable-join.md

# How to join an in-memory DataFrame to a TableExpression

You might have an in-memory DataFrame that you want to join to a TableExpression.
For example, you might have a file on your local machine that you don't want to upload to
your backend, but you need to join it to a table in that backend.

You can perform joins on local data to TableExpressions from your backend easily with Ibis MemTables.

> In this guide, you will lean how to join a pandas DataFrame to a TableExpression.

Author: learn*; fixed.  Thanks!

> Data Setup:

Author: Good call; fixed.  Thanks!

In this example, we will create two DataFrames: one containing events and one containing event names.
We will save the events to a parquet file and read that as a TableExpression in the DuckDB backend.
We will then convert the event names DataFrame to a PandasInMemoryTable (MemTable), which is
a pandas DataFrame as a TableExpression and join the two expressions together as we would
two TableExpressions in a backend.

```python
    Python 3.10.6 (main, Aug 10 2022, 11:40:04) [GCC 11.3.0]
    Type 'copyright', 'credits' or 'license' for more information
    IPython 8.5.0 -- An enhanced Interactive Python. Type '?' for help.

    In [1]: import ibis

    In [2]: import pandas as pd
       ...: from datetime import date

>     In [3]: # create a pandas DataFrame that we will convert to a PandasInMemoryTabl
>        ...: e (Ibis MemTable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In [3]: # create a pandas DataFrame that we will convert to a
       ...: # PandasInMemoryTable (Ibis MemTable)
```

>        ...: events = pd.DataFrame({
>        ...:     'event_id': range(4)
>        ...:     ,'event_name': [f'e{k}' for k in range(4)]
>        ...: })

Reviewer: The rest of the ibis project code seems to follow the black format. For consistency this would be:

```suggestion
       ...: events = pd.DataFrame(
       ...:     {
       ...:         'event_id': range(4),
       ...:         'event_name': [f'e{k}' for k in range(4)],
       ...:     }
       ...: )
```

Other cells will require similar treatment.

    In [4]: # Create a parquet file that we will read in using the DuckDB backend
       ...: # as a TableExpression
       ...: measures = pd.DataFrame({
       ...:     "event_id": [0] * 2 + [1] * 3 + [2] * 5 + [3] * 2
       ...:     ,"measured_on": map(
       ...:         date
       ...:         ,[2021] * 12, [6] * 4 + [5] * 6 + [7] * 2
       ...:         ,range(1, 13)
       ...:     )
       ...:     ,"measurement": None
       ...: })

    In [5]: measures.at[1, "measurement"] = 5.
       ...: measures.at[4, "measurement"] = 42.
       ...: measures.at[5, "measurement"] = 42.
       ...: measures.at[7, "measurement"] = 11.

    In [6]: # Save measures to parquet:

>        ...: measures.to_parquet('data.parquet')

Reviewer: Maybe this file should more explicitly named be named `"measures.parquet"`:

Author: Good idea; I'll update this

# How to join an in-memory DataFrame to a TableExpression

You might have an in-memory DataFrame that you want to join to a TableExpression.
For example, you might have a file on your local machine that you don't want to upload to
your backend, but you need to join it to a table in that backend.

You can perform joins on local data to TableExpressions from your backend easily with Ibis MemTables.

In this guide, you will lean how to join a pandas DataFrame to a TableExpression.

Data Setup:

In this example, we will create two DataFrames: one containing events and one containing event names.
We will save the events to a parquet file and read that as a TableExpression in the DuckDB backend.
We will then convert the event names DataFrame to a PandasInMemoryTable (MemTable), which is
a pandas DataFrame as a TableExpression and join the two expressions together as we would
two TableExpressions in a backend.

```python
    Python 3.10.6 (main, Aug 10 2022, 11:40:04) [GCC 11.3.0]
    Type 'copyright', 'credits' or 'license' for more information

>     IPython 8.5.0 -- An enhanced Interactive Python. Type '?' for help.

Reviewer 2: Elide python header, please.

Author: Done; thanks!

```

and joining is the same as joining any two TableExpressions:

```python
    In [11]: # Join as you would two table expressions
        ...: measures.join(
        ...:     mem_events
        ...:     ,measures['event_id'] == mem_events['event_id']
        ...:     ,suffixes=('', '__x')
        ...: ).execute()
    Out[11]:
        event_id measured_on  measurement  event_id__x event_name
    0          0  2021-06-01          NaN            0         e0
    1          0  2021-06-02          5.0            0         e0
    2          1  2021-06-03          NaN            1         e1
    3          1  2021-06-04          NaN            1         e1
    4          1  2021-05-05         42.0            1         e1
    5          2  2021-05-06         42.0            2         e2
    6          2  2021-05-07          NaN            2         e2
    7          2  2021-05-08         11.0            2         e2
    8          2  2021-05-09          NaN            2         e2
    9          2  2021-05-10          NaN            2         e2
    10         3  2021-07-11          NaN            3         e3
    11         3  2021-07-12          NaN            3         e3
```

> Note that the return result of the join is a TableExpression and that `execute` returns a pandas DataFrame.

Reviewer 2: Let's wrap `join` in backticks like `execute`.

Author: Done; thanks!
